Day 1: Introduction to Python, Installation, and Configuration
Objectives
Understand the role of Python in DevOps.
Install Python and set up a development environment.
Write and execute your first Python program.
Prerequisites
Basic Understanding of Programming Concepts: Familiarity with basic programming concepts will be helpful, but not required. If you need a refresher, consider watching the following video:

Programming Basics - What is Programming? (YouTube)
Basic Command Line Skills: Knowledge of how to use the command line interface (CLI) is useful for setting up Python. If you're new to the CLI, check out:

Command Line Basics (YouTube)
Installation and Setup
Install Python:

Visit the official Python website to download the latest version of Python.
Follow the installation instructions for your operating system:
Windows: Run the installer and make sure to check "Add Python to PATH".
macOS: Python is pre-installed on macOS. To install a newer version, use Homebrew: brew install python.
Linux: Use your package manager, e.g., sudo apt-get install python3 for Ubuntu.
Verify Installation:

Open your command line interface and type python --version or python3 --version to confirm Python is installed correctly.
You should see the installed Python version.
Set Up a Development Environment:

Install a text editor or Integrated Development Environment (IDE). Some popular choices include:

VS Code
PyCharm
Sublime Text
Optionally, set up a virtual environment to manage dependencies:

bash
Copy code
python -m venv myenv
source myenv/bin/activate  # On Windows use `myenv\Scripts\activate`
Write Your First Python Program
Create a Python Script:

Open your text editor or IDE and create a new file named hello.py.
Write the Code:

Add the following code to hello.py:
python
Copy code
print("Hello, DevOps!")
Run the Script:

Open your command line interface and navigate to the directory containing hello.py.
Run the script with:
bash
Copy code
python hello.py
You should see Hello, DevOps! printed to the terminal.
Additional Resources
Python Official Documentation: Python Docs
Python for Beginners: Python Beginner's Guide